# Introduction


# Welcome to the ESA EarthCODE 101 Workshop!

Link to resources: https://discourse-earthcode.eox.at/t/foss4g-uk-2025-discussion/93

EarthCODE is a strategic initiative by the <b> European Space Agency (ESA) </b> designed to empower researchers in Earth System Science with FAIR and Open Science practices. By providing a collaborative development environment with integrated tools, cloud services, and expert guidance, EarthCODE helps scientists make their research more impactful, transparent, and reusable—while staying focused on the science itself.

<b>Doing Open Science shouldn't be hard, and EarthCODE makes it easy!</b>

This hands-on workshop is designed to introduce participants to EarthCODE's capabilities, guiding them from searching, finding, and accessing EO datasets and workflows to publishing reproducible experiments that can be shared with the wider scientific community. It focuses on local development and demonstrates how local workflows can be scaled to the cloud.

During this workshop, participants will, in a hands-on fashion will learn about the following:
- Introduction to EarthCODE and the future of FAIR and Open Science in Earth Observation
- Gain understanding in Finding, Accessing, Interoperability, and Reusability of data and workflows on EarthCODE
- Creating reproducible experiments using EarthCODE’s platforms
- Scaling Pangeo workflows using EarthCODE's Integrated Platforms.
- Publishing data and experiments to EarthCODE

 At the end of the workshop, we will take time for discussion and feedback on how to make EarthCODE better for the community.


**Pre-requirements for attendees**: The participants need to bring their laptop, have an active github account and ideally install the provided enviroment, following the steps described in the *setup* document.

:::{hint} Learning Objectives
- Access EarthCODE Open Science Catalog using the STAC API.
- Understand and work with Zarr-formatted data and chunking.
- Use Xarray and Dask for scalable geospatial analysis.
- Run a complete data analysis example using EarthCODE resources.
- Save and publish results to the EarthCODE Catalog.
- Scale Pangeo workflows using EarthCODE's Integrated Platforms.
:::



